In the last section, we learned how to start up a shell inside of a container the instant that it was
started.
By the way, if you have a little bit of trouble exiting from this by hitting control C, which is usually
how we exit out of a container.
Remember, you can either press control D on your keyboard or you can just type in exit like so and
it will kick you back out.
Now, in this section, there's one very small gotcha, maybe not even a gotcha, but just a very particular
thing that I want to go over to make sure that it's really crystal clear on how containers behave.
I want you to recall back to a little bit ago when we were initially talking about what a container
is.
Remember that we gave this example of where Chrome had needed a particular version of Python and Node.js
needed its own version of Python.
And we had said that through that name spacing feature, we can kind of imagine that our hard disk had
two little segments carved out of it, and any time Chrome tried to access that hard drive, it would
get its own segment.
Any time no.
Tried to access the hard drive, it would get its own different segment.
And so the thing that I want to make sure is really crystal clear is that between two containers, they
do not automatically share their file system.
We're going to do a quick demo inside of our terminal just to really confirm that that is the case.
So I'm going to open up my terminal and I'm going to start up a new instance of that busy box image,
and I'm going to start up a shell inside there.
So I'll do Docker, run, dash it.
Busy box shell.
So now I can list my files and folders inside of here and I see just these default folders.
I'm now going to open up a second terminal window and I'm going to start a second container with the
same parameters.
So second terminal window and I'll do Docker run dash t.
Busy box s h.
Now I'm going to open up one more terminal window.
So this is going to be a third one.
And inside of here, I'll do Docker and I can verify that I have two separate containers, both running
a shell.
Now I'm going to go to the first terminal window.
And inside of here, I'm going to create a new file with touch.
Hi there.
Like, so that's going to create a new file called.
There it is right there.
I can run LZ, and I'll see the file up here right away.
Now, here's the fun part.
We're going to go over to the second terminal window.
And I'll do an LZ over here as well.
And of course, I am not going to see that file of hi there, because these two running containers have
absolutely, completely separate file systems and there's no sharing of data between the two.
Again, this is kind of a small thing, but I just wanted to make sure that it was very crystal clear.
So in general, unless you and I specifically form up a connection between two containers, we really
consider them to be more or less completely isolated from each other and totally separate.
All right.
So that's pretty much it on the basics of Docker.
So we're going to take a quick pause right here.
We're going to come back the next section and we're going to start moving on to the next big topic that
we're going to cover.
So I'll see you in just a minute.